#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
---
layout: page
title: Perspectives on Learning -
tagline: " and instruction"
permalink: /learning/course/perspectives_on_learning_intro.html
categories: [learning, perspective]
tags: [intro]
---
#+END_EXPORT

#+STARTUP: showall indent
#+OPTIONS: tags:nil num:nil \n:nil @:t ::t |:t ^:{} _:{} *:t
#+TOC: headlines 2
#+PROPERTY:header-args :results output :exports both :eval no-export

This is the intro to the module perspectives on learning an
instruction in which we are going to explore three different
theoretical perspectives on the way learning and instruction have been
studied. But before we start to do that I would like to zoom in on a
very old beard piece of art a fresco made by raphael and shown in the
vatican museums in Rome. Here you see a very famous school of virtual
school the school of athens in which I myself very much would like to
have been a teacher because all the famous philosophers are there you
see Sir process sitting there on the stairs but more importantly we
will zoom in on two very famous philosophers Plato Aristotle Plato on
the left is pointing upwards with this digit finger and Aristotle is
is pointing in front of him to the world around him why these two
philosophers here at the start of this module on learning and
instruction well they are a source of inspiration for many
philosophers to come many learning theorists to come.

Plato is pointing upwards because he considers the world of pure ideas
somewhere up in the heavens as the source of our knowledge the world
of pure ideas has in store all the knowledge we as human beings can
develop and when we are born as human beings we are already gifted
with this knowledge basically it's its inborn all we have to do is
just recollect what has been stored in our mind already all learning
is but three collection as Plato phrases it now the view of Aristotle
is completely opposite because he considers the world around us as the
source of our knowledge so we have to do we have to act and to explore
the world to experience in order to collect knowledge to learn so
learning is a matter of experiencing the world around us concrete
experience is the basis of all learning and knowledge acquisition so
these two positions are completely opposite and they have inspired in
fact a lot of theorists therefore I would like to draw your attention
to the two both of these folds famous philosophers just focus on a
modern philosopher called noam chomsky a famous linguist this idea is
that people are born with what equals a language acquisition device a
piece of equipment which enables us to develop language skills in
develop the use of language now this is basically such an inborn thing
such an inborn device which is part Plato's idea of everything has
been in born and just has to be activated an example of such a failing
activation is basically the the story of non foul survive the wild
child which was discovered in 1800 by parisien doctor who tried to
raise him and to try to teach him language skills because the the boy
had passed the particular age the critical period in which he would
have been able to develop these skills without hearing the knowledge
in the boots ready was raised therefore he could not you know later on
developed this mastery of of language anymore and very nice film made
by 434 so if you have to challenge you should try to see it so this is
the the plate of sight and perhaps you can also give one example of a
philosopher of a am a philosopher who actually adults the Aristotelian
point of view John Dewey famous American pedagogue and philosopher who
emphasized that experience is the base of our knowledge we learn by
doing not by observing you cannot learn to play football by just
observing football matches that the spectator position as do be called
it is not the proper place to learn therefore we have to actually have
to experience and in the course of this acting and experiencing we
will gradually develop language learning and impossible knowledge of
course so these two relatively modern philosophers and theories do
remind us of the old positions of Plato never stuff on therefore I
would like to start with then we will return to these positions later
on in this module okay now we can just have a look at what we are
going to do in the module we are going to subsequently explorer
behaviorism cognitivism and constructivism as prosper theoretical
perspectives on learning and instruction and eventually we will
discuss a few research methods which are used by researchers in this
particular domain
