#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
---
layout: page
title: The Second Brain -
tagline: " A Life-Changing Productivity System"
permalink: /personal/growth/second_brain.html
categories: [personal-growth]
tags: [become, yourself, vocabulary]
---
#+END_EXPORT

#+STARTUP: showall
#+OPTIONS: tags:nil num:nil \n:nil @:t ::t |:t ^:{} _:{} *:t
#+TOC: headlines 2
#+PROPERTY:header-args :results output :exports both :eval no-export

This is the [[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OP3dA2GcAh8&ab_channel=AliAbdaal][source]]


So last year I spent a stupidly large amount of money on this online
course that genuinely changed my life it's called building a second
brain and it promises to supercharge your productivity and creativity
and like I was already pretty good at the productivity stuff in terms
of getting things done but through the course I discovered the field
of personal knowledge management which is like the next level of
productivity and it really helped me unlock kind of the next frontier
the main idea is that over time you build up this second brain which
is a digital note-taking system whereby anything that you read watch
and listen to that resonates with you goes into your system and then
you can use your second brain to organize your ideas and thoughts and
you can ultimately convert them into your creative output.


In this video we're going to go over the 10 fundamental principles of
building a second brain so that you can also maximize your
productivity and creativity if you want to check out the course itself
there will be a link in the video description and very excitingly I am
now an official alumni mentor for the course so when it happens with a
live cohorts which happened twice a year I'll be joining and offering
my expert expert mentoring services on these live zoom calls but yeah
not gonna lie it's super expensive like for me it was totally worth it
because I derive value from this sort of stuff and if you're if you're
the right sort of person if you're a knowledge worker it'll probably
be worth it for you but it's definitely not for everyone and so
hopefully in this video you'll learn the 10 fundamental principles of
it so you can start getting some of the knowledge from this course
without having to pay for it.


The first principle is borrowed creativity and that's the idea that we
all intuitively think of creativity as kind of creating original stuff
and like I don't consider myself a very creative person because I feel
like I don't really have any original ideas but one of the key
insights from the course is that actually creativity is all about
remixing stuff it's about taking ideas that already exist based on the
things that you read watch and listen to and then adding your own spin
to them and sort of combining things in interesting ways and that is
what creativity is it's like what pablo picasso famously said that
good artists copy but great artists steal and this is one of the key
ideas of building a second brain it's the idea that if you have all of
the little bits that resonate with you from all the stuff that you
read watch and listen to if you have all that in one place it becomes
a lot easier to start putting things together and to start seeing
connections that you wouldn't have seen before whereas if you try and
do that all in your head it doesn't work as well.


Secondly we've got the capture habit and this is a fundamental part of
productivity it's based around the idea that our brains are for having
ideas not for storing them and so whenever we get any sort of idea
whenever anything resonates with us in any way from anything in life
even if we're just walking down the park or if we're in the shower or
if we're listening to a podcast we want to capture that idea as soon
as possible because our brains are not going to hold on to it for a
very long period of time since I took the course in 2019 I've now
started taking this very very seriously and so I have all sorts of
different mechanisms for capturing ideas depending on where I get them
like if i'm listening to a podcast or an audiobook in the car and i've
got my apple watch I will dictate voice notes into drafts the app on
my apple watch and that'll sync automatically with evernote.


Or if i'm reading a book on kindle I will highlight it on the kindle
i'll add a note and that will automatically sync to evernote and
notion through read-wise which is an amazing app and a couple of weeks
ago I realized that when I was in the shower I was having so many
ideas and I was just forgetting about them by the time I got out of
the shower so I now have a waterproof notebook on the windowsill next
to the shower next to me and so if I have an idea I capture it right
there and then because I know that my own brain is a dumbass and it's
not going to hold on to that idea for very long thirdly we've got the
principle of idea recycling and the main view here is that ideas are
not single use like I certainly used to think them but we can actually
recycle ideas and reuse them over time and so one of the things we
want to do in our second brain like whatever note-taking app we're
using for it is.

We want to keep track of all of the stuff that we're creating and all
of the ideas that we're using for certain projects because we can just
reuse those ideas for others and so for me whenever I now make a video
or write a blog post or a tweet or anything all of that goes straight
into my second brain because I know somewhere down the line i'm gonna
want to reuse some of that information and then it means that I've got
these building blocks already that I can then build other things out
of so for example most of the online courses that I make are actually
just very easily put together from building blocks from my second
brain based on this idea of idea recycling and it just meant that over
the last few months even while I was working full-time as a doctor i
could churn out these online classes on skillshare link in the video
description and those have just made such a stupidly large amount of
money relative to my full-time job salary and the fact that I had all
of these ideas in my second brain system so that I could recycle them
made that whole process infinitely easier.

The fourth principle is the idea of projects over categories and this
is one of the things that I really learned early on when I when I took
the course and that's I sort of used to take notes in the past but i
would categorize things in terms of category like you know if I saw an
interesting thing about marketing i'd put it in a marketing folder in
evernote or if I saw an interesting thing about motivation i'd put it
in a motivation folder but then i'd end up with these sort of folders
with lots of notes in them and didn't really have anything to do with
them but now I think of it more in terms of projects and so if i
capture an idea firstly it goes into my kind of general capture inbox
but then I will try my best to associate it to some kind of project
that i'm currently working on because then the information is going to
be directly useful rather than it just sitting in a bookmark folder
that i'm never going to look at again.


Next we have the principle of slow burns and I think this is another
really important aspect of my own personal productivity and that most
of the things I do are slow burns rather than heavy lifts so on the
one hand we've got heavy lifts so like imagine you want to write a
book or you want to make an online course and you think right i'm
going to go to a cabin in the woods and i'm going to sit down and do
the thing and i'm going to do all the work for it in a small amount of
time and that'll be like your heavy lift like you you're lifting a
very heavy load this project is like a big a big thing that you have
to do all at once and this sort of heavy lift mentality and like at
least for me it stops me from doing a lot of things because I think
well I haven't got the time to spend three weeks going to a cabin in
the woods to write this book but the opposite of heavy lifts is the
idea of slow burns and that's a big part of the building a second
brain methodology.


And the main idea is that we have this list of projects that we're
working on and they're all kind of on the slow burner like for me
right now for example I've got a handful of online courses and like
books and other kind of products in the pipeline but i'm never sitting
down and kind of bashing through them one at a time instead I've got
them on the slow burn and so over time as I read and watch and listen
to things and discover interesting ideas and come up with my own ideas
some of the time it'll just go in straight into my second brain and
into the relevant project and so over time instead of kind of doing a
big project one at a time i'm doing all 10 of these projects like in
very very very small amounts and so now when it comes for me to you
know spend a day consolidating all of the bits into the next
skillshare class for example it's actually very easy to put together
because I've already done the work over time it's not a heavy lift
that i'm struggling with instead it's a slow burn.


That just by default through spending time on the internet and
capturing notes into the right place in my second brain I've kind of
got a system for that and that's another really big plus of having a
centralized note-taking system that is connected to whatever thing
you're using to keep track of your projects on the next principle is
to start with abundance and when we're doing writing or creating
anything or writing an essay or an assignment or a presentation or
pretty much anything we all have that issue that we tend to start from
a blank page and we have the blank page in front of us and we think
right this is hard I've got writer's block I don't really know what to
do but another main thing in the second brain stuff is that if you
have collected all this stuff over time all of your inspirations and
bits then you're never really starting from scratch you're always
starting from abundance and so let's say you're using evernote for
your second brain or notion and you want to write an article about
motivation or productivity all you have to do is search the word
motivation and automatically you've got like a ton of articles that
you have read and annotated and made your own notes on over the last
few years and you can just kind of draw from those and take bits from
here and bits from there and ultimately that'll lead to a really nice
blog post or video script or whatever you're making about motivation
because you're querying the data set of stuff in your second brain and
that just kind of changes the game because it means you're never
starting from a blank page you're always starting with abundance
you're starting with this pre-existing treasure trove of information
that you yourself have decided in the past that was worth saving.

Next we have the idea of intermediate packets and this is something
that I kind of knew intuitively but I didn't really have the
terminology for back in the day so if you imagine let's say you're a
university student and you're writing an essay an essay isn't actually
like we think of it as like a big thing but actually it's made up of a
lot of intermediate packets I used to call them content blocks in my
head when I was in my third year writing loads of essays it's like you
know your introduction is a block an intermediate packet then you've
got maybe a paragraph or a section on short-term memory versus
long-term memory then you have a section on the phonological loop
versus the visual spatial sketch pad which are aspects of working
memory or whatever you've got these kind of five or six different
intermediate packets and when you put them together they form an essay
but one of the crucial insights which helps make students lives more
efficient is that a lot of these intermediate packets you can actually
put in different essays and so what I would do when I was at
university and this was the method that helped me rank first in the u
group one year um what I used to do is I would memorize the
intermediate packets or the content blocks and then i'd be able to
essentially in my head drag and drop them into whatever I say I wanted
to that was relevant to memory for example and even outside the world
of essay writing and academia it's really relevant like for you know
for example this video on 10 principles of building a second brain
each of these 10 principles are their own intermediate packet and i
know that in the future when I make another kind of video or if i'm
writing a blog post or if i'm writing a book there are surely some
aspects of this video some intermediate packets that I can just drag
and drop into my other thing.

So firstly thinking in that way really helps because it means that
it's a lot easier to put stuff together for your next project but also
in a way it makes it easier to get started on your current project so
for example when i'm writing an essay I don't think of it as oh damn i
need to sit down and write the whole essay which would be more of a
heavy lift I think of it as okay I just need to focus on the
introduction or I just need to write that one intermediate packet of
short-term memory versus long-term memory and then it just kind of
makes the work more doable because a big problem that me and a lot of
other people have is getting started with doing the work and if
there's like a big mountain in front of us like writing a whole essay
it can feel really hard but if it's just a small intermediate packet
like writing a single paragraph it becomes a lot easier and then those
bits those intermediate packets are then like go into our second brain
and they're useful for future projects further down the line next we
have the idea that you only know what you make and this is like a big
part of the building second brain thing this is a big part of my
personal spiel as well these days is that like we can read watch and
listen to all the stuff that we want but really the stuff that we're
really going to internalize and that's really going to affect our
lives and that we can feasibly use in our future projects is going to
be the stuff that we have created ourselves so whether that's reading
a book and then writing a summary of it or whether it's listening to a
podcast and kind of turning it into like a tweet storm of like
insights from the podcast or even if it's having a random idea and
then writing like fleshing out that idea into an intermediate packet
and chucking it into our second brain.


When we engage with the material ourselves rather than relying on just
pre-existing material we end up becoming much more familiar with it
and then we can do interesting creative original whatever things with
that stuff and actually one of my biggest regrets in life is that i
didn't start taking notes on stuff until like last year when i
discovered this building a second brain course and I really wish i'd
been doing this since like the age of 15 when I first started reading
non-fiction books because if I imagine all the hundreds of books that
i've read over the last like decade of my life if i'd thought to
summarize them or just just like quickly right up my insides or the
interesting things I was thinking about or that i'd i'd come across
from reading the book looking back at that now would have been such a
huge treasure trove of information and now i'm having to kind of go
back through all the books I've ever read and and like reread them and
then summarize them and I i really wish i'd been doing that more as as
i was growing up and so occasionally you know I'll do like an
instagram live and people will ask me what's your biggest regret in
life and I say honestly you know it's that I didn't take more notes
from books or people ask you know what advice do you have for a 14
year old it would be like bro make an evernote account make a notion
account like whatever it doesn't matter which app you use just start
writing down the notes from all the stuff that you're reading because
in 10 years time you're going to be so glad that that's what you're
doing principle number nine is you want to make it easier for your
future self and the way that I think of my second brain.

I.e. my kind of suite of digital note-taking apps that I use for
different different things is that ultimately i'm putting in the work
now to create a resource that my future self is going to find helpful
and so while right now I might be listening to a podcast and I you
know hear the word transactional analysis let's say i'm listening to a
podcast about transactional analysis that was an episode that me and
my brother did on a podcast somewhat recently I might be tempted to
just write down transactional analysis because I kind of know right
now what it means but that's not particularly useful to my future self
because my brain is a dumbass and i'm going to forget exactly what
it's meant and so I'll take a little bit of time right now to write a
few notes on it to flesh it out in my own words so that when future me
comes across this note on transactional analysis future me will know
exactly what current me was talking about and this is something that
like endlessly frustrates me of what I used to do back in the day
where I looked through my evernote from like 2015 and I think what the
hell does this even mean like I don't remember what I was thinking
when I took this note because I assumed too much intelligence on the
part of my of my future self and so now when i'm creating stuff i'm
always thinking with my future self in mind equally if i'm studying
for an exam and i'm using anki flash cards or anything i'm thinking to
myself my brain is a dumb ass i'm not going to remember this therefore
i need to create the flash card or create the note in a way that my
future self will be will easily be able to access it and that's
another big part of the building second brain methodology and our
final principle is the idea that you want to keep your ideas moving
and that's kind of this.


It's it's like an anti-perfectionist take on this because one of the
traps that we can fall into if we're building out a note-taking system
is that we can fall into the trap of perfectionism where we think okay
well right I've just discovered how to use notion I've watched ali and
thomas frank's videos on how to use notion i'm going to create this
elaborate database of all the stuff that I've ever read and it's going
to have like 18 pieces of metadata assigned for each one and we can
get stuck kind of appreciating the intricacies of the app and the
intricacies of our system rather than focusing on what matters which
is to keep our ideas moving and get stuff kind of into our second
brain and then organize it and distill it into our own insights and
then convert it into creative output because really the most important
thing is the output it really doesn't matter what's in your second
brain so what if you save all the podcasts you've ever listened to
like unless you're doing something with that information unless you're
turning it into something or sharing something or applying it to your
own life in some way it's completely useless and that's why I really
like this principle of keep your ideas moving like it's not about
having a perfect note-taking system because there is no perfect
note-taking system there is no perfect app it's about having a system
that just keeps your ideas moving and flowing through it in an
imperfect way and that's one of the key things that I learned on the
course it's that we don't have to worry about getting it right up
front we can just kind of improve the system over time and as long as
we're like creating the output that's the main thing that matters so
those were the 10 principles of building a second brain.

I'll put a load of other links in the video description if you want to
learn more like free resources on how to find out more about this i've
done lots of other videos where I talk about this idea of personal
knowledge management so you can check those out and if you want to
check out the course if you maybe want to be mentored by me live on
zoom calls you know this year while we're going through the cohort
together then link in the video description check it out like I said
it's super expensive it is absolutely not for everyone if you're a
student and you can't afford it then you know don't hate me it's not
for student students really it's more for creative professionals who
are making money off of this thing and who can consider the large
price tag and investment in their future but whether or not you want
to check out the actual course I hope you found this video useful uh a
few more videos coming in the series and you can click here to check
out a playlist of other personal knowledge management related videos
that I've done if this sort of stuff interests you and you're a
massive nerd like me so thank you for watching and I'll see you in the
next video bye.
