#+BEGIN_EXPORT html
---
layout: page
title: The Best Book I've Ever Read
tagline: "  about Making Money"
permalink: /personal/wealth/money-book.html
categories: [personal wealth, money]
tags: [overview]
---
#+END_EXPORT

#+STARTUP: showall indent
#+OPTIONS: tags:nil num:nil todo:nil pri:nil \n:nil @:t ::t |:t ^:{} _:{} *:t
#+TOC: headlines 2
#+PROPERTY:header-args :results output :exports both :eval no-export
#+CATEGORY: Money
#+TODO: RAW INIT TODO ACTIVE | MAYBE DONE CLOSED

* ACTIVE Intro
SCHEDULED: <2022-02-24 Thu>

All right, so in this video, I'm gonna summarise some of the insights
from this book, The Millionaire Fastlane.  I thought that this was
gonna be really bad when a friend recommended it to me.  And then this
friend said, "No, trust me. Ignore the click-baity title, The
Millionaire Fastlane, and read the book because it's genuinely really
good.  And it is genuinely really good.  This is probably the single
best book I have ever read on how to build a business that makes
money.  And so in this episode of Book Club, which is the series where
we distil and discuss highlights from some of my favourite books,
we're gonna be breaking down five key lessons from the book.  And
also, the five commandments of building a business that MJ DeMarco
talks about.  How to get rich quick.

* ACTIVE Avoid the slow lane
SCHEDULED: <2022-02-24 Thu>

Now, the first important lesson in the book is that we want to avoid
the slow lane.  And the point that our friend, MJ, makes in the book,
is that "get rich quick" is often seen as, like, a scammy thing.  Oh,
it's a get-rich-quick scheme.  But actually, it's not get-rich-quick
that's a problem, it is get-rich-easy.  Like it is very possible to
get rich quick, and that is why we're talking about The Millionaire
Fastlane.  It's very possible to get rich quick, but it's not at all
possible to get rich easy.  And so, if someone is trying to sell you
that it is easy to get rich, that is a scam and you should avoid it.
And one of the interesting things that he talks about in the book is
the idea that there are three paths through life.  There's path number
one, which is the sidewalk.  This path to the slow lane, and path
number three, the fast lane.

The sidewalk is basically where people who are living paycheck to
paycheck live, people who don't have a lot of money.  I'm not gonna
talk about it too much.  It's a bit disparaging.

It's very American style.  Sort of very brash way of describing it
that he does.  Like, you know, "If you're living on the sidewalk, then
you're living paycheck to paycheck."  And like, "Your life is screwed
because you believe that the government is screwing you over," all
that kind of stuff.  We're not gonna talk about that too much.  There
are a few bits like that in the book where you have to kind of read or
listen to it with a little pinch of salt.

But I think the second path through life, the slow lane, is
interesting.  Because if you follow the slow lane, you can still get
rich.  And the slow lane is generally, if you're watching this,
probably your parents' generation stood by the slow lane.  The idea of
the slow lane is that, you know, you go to school.  You get good
grades. You get a decent job.  You work your way up the ladder in your
job, whatever your job is.  You save some percentage of your paycheck.
You put that into investments, maybe in the stock market, if you're
particularly rogue.

But probably, you know, you should invest in property and real estate
because property is a good investment.  And over time, eventually, you
will have enough of a nest egg such that when you retire, then you
will be rich.  And you can enjoy your retirement at the age of 65 when
you have osteoarthritis in both of your knees.  That is, basically,
the idea of the slow lane.

And he talks about how there are three traps that we can fall into,
which will end up keeping us on the slow lane.  The first trap is that
life in the slow lane looks like it's pretty safe.  You can think
that, "Okay, once I get this job, then my life is pretty safe and I'm
pretty sorted."  But if the pandemic has taught us anything, and if,
you know, the way the world is at the moment, A: it's actually not
that safe.  You actually could lose your job.

If you're, fine, if you're a doctor or something like that, where
you're unlikely to lose your job, that's still pretty safe.  But even
so, what he says is that there are a tonne of other unexpected events
that happen in life.  Like if there's a market crash like there was in
2008, or if you have kids, Or if you get divorced.  Or if you have a
health problem and you live in a stupid country, like America, where
that could potentially bankrupt you.

There are all of these fairly common, unexpected events that can
happen in life that make life in the slow lane not actually as safe an
option as it might've been for our parents' generation.

The second trap that Slow Laners can fall into is this idea that if we
build our intrinsic market value enough, then we will get rich.  So,
for example, these are the people who think, "Okay, I've worked my job
for two years.  Now I'm gonna go and get an MBA and pay like however
many tens of thousands of dollars to get an MBA.  Because then once I
have that degree, then I will be worth more to my future employer."

But the problem with that style of thinking is that it's not really
the fast lane approach to building wealth.  It is still, ultimately,
trading your time for money.  And yes, fine.  If you get you that
extra degree, if you get that extra qualification, your time will be
worth more.  A little bit more, maybe even significantly more, but
ultimately, you're still just trading your time for money.  And that
is a very slow-laney way to approach building wealth.

And the third trap that Slow Laners can fall into is just not even
believing it's possible to get rich quick, unless you're super lucky
or super talented.  But, as MJ says, even if you can't get rich easy,
which is not a thing, you can get rich relatively quick, if quick is
10 years.

10 years is the definition of quick, which to be honest, it's pretty
quick.  But a lot of us, when we think "get rich quick", we're
thinking a few weeks.  That is not a thing.  What he's arguing for is
a process that will take probably around 10 years to get rich quick.
And that is actually quick, in his book.

* MAYBE Work the process
SCHEDULED: <2022-02-24 Thu>

And that brings us on to lesson number two, which is to work the
process.  Now in the book, he talks a lot about how wealth is not an
event.  Like, getting rich is not this sort of binary thing where one
day you're living paycheck to paycheck and the next day suddenly
you've got millions in the bank.  It is a longer drawn-out process
that takes usually many years to do.  But the problem is that the
media often reports wealth as being an event, and those are the
stories we latch on to.  One of the stories he talks about is this
guy, John Darius Bikoff, who founded Glaceau Vitamin Water in 1996.
11 years later he sold the company to Coca-Cola for $4.1 billion.  And
in that 11 year long story, the thing that people remember is the
event.  But what they forget is the process of 11 years that took so
long to get to that point.  Therefore, wealth building is not an
event, it's a process.  And it's exactly the same thing with building
a creative business, building a YouTube channel.  You know, it's easy
to see creators and their overnight successes, and all that jazz.  But
you don't see the five years they spent making videos that no one was
watching to get to the point where they could then have the "event" of
the overnight success.

* TODO Build money trees
SCHEDULED: <2022-02-23 Wed>
:LOGBOOK:
CLOCK: [2022-02-21 Mon 10:06]
:END:

All right, so lesson number three is to build money trees.  Now we've
all heard that phrase that money doesn't grow on trees.  But what he
says in the book is "Money does actually grow on trees, provided you
build a tree that grows money."  So what does this mean?  He says in
the book that, "Money trees are business systems that survive on their
own.  They require periodic support and nurturing, but they survive on
their own, creating a surrogate for your time for money trade."
Basically what we're doing is we're building a business.  We're
building this money tree where the amount of wealth we can generate is
not directly tied to the amount of time that we're putting into it.
This brings us onto the next question, which is how do we actually
build a money tree?  And he talks about, there's like four or five
different types of money trees that we could potentially build.

The first one is that we could build a rental system.  And a rental
system is basically anything that involves renting out something that
you already own.  So if you have a bunch of real estate properties,
and you rent them out, that is a rental system.  The problem is it's
very hard to get to the point where you have a bunch of properties to
rent out, 'cause you're already probably rich at that point.  The
other way of building a rental system is by licencing.  For example,
if you're a musician and you want to licence your audio that other
people can use.  In a way, they're paying you rent for this thing that
you own.

Secondly, what you could do is you could build a distribution system.
Now this is basically a system that connects people who want something
with the people who are supplying that thing.  So for example, Amazon
is a distribution system.  It connects buyers with sellers and Amazon
is the middleman.  And therefore, if you build the middleman, if you
build a distribution system, you can get really, really, really,
really rich.

All right, thirdly, when it comes to building a money tree, we have a
software system, But it is five o'clock and I have a Zoom call to
attend.  So I will be right back. (claps hands) All right, we're back.
We've got a slight change to the lighting, but the third type of
system that you can make to make this money tree.  I'm so glad. I'm so
glad that worked.  I really hope this is gonna work in the edit.
Anyway, the third type of money tree we want to create is a software
system.  Now, that's pretty standard.  You make the software once and
then you can charge people for the software or for the digital
product.  And then you can make money multiple times because the cost
of distribution and the cost of replication is effectively zero.  I've
made a bunch of software products in my time when I was in med school.
I built something called BMAT and UCAT Ninja, which was like a
software platform that helped people get into med school by helping
them prepare for the med school admissions exams.

One of my YouTuber friends, Oliur, managed to make $9,000 in a single
week by selling icons that he designed.  So that's a digital asset.
He puts the work into creating it once and it's sort of like a
software system whereby other people can just buy the thing because it
is, ultimately, software.

And the fourth system that our friend, MJ, talks about is my favourite
kind.  And that is the content money tree, the content system, where
basically the idea is you create content.  So if you write a book, or
make a YouTube video, or write a blog post, or make an online course
that you can sell, ultimately, this is all content.  It takes an
investment of time and effort to write the book or create the content
once.  But then you can sell it to multiple people further down the
line.  And similar to the digital stuff, it has basically zero cost of
replication and distribution, assuming it's on the internet.  And if
it's a book, well then, there are some costs associated with it.  But
it's still broadly a way of making money that's not tied to your own
time.

For example, like two years ago now, a year ago, or something,
I made a Skillshare class about how to study for exams.  And that
class brings in about $10,000 every single month in pure passive
income.  And I don't do it- I basically do nothing to promote it.  By
the way, if you have exams coming up, check out my Skillshare class.
It'll be linked for free in the video description if you want to check
it out.  But it's amazing how you can just do the work to make
something once.

Although, in fairness, I was creating study-themed content on YouTube
for two years before I made that class.  So again, it wasn't a
get-rich-quick scheme.  It wasn't a get-rich-easy scheme.  But it was
like a money tree that built up over time and has now helped pay the
mortgage on my house.

So we've talked about the four different types of money tree, but what
MJ says in the book is that, and what's obviously true, is that it's
not that easy to build one of these.  You don't just magically have
the ability to do that.

* RAW Switch from being a consumer to a producer
SCHEDULED: <2022-02-22 Tue>

And one of the ways that you can is lesson number four, which is
switch from being a consumer to being a producer.  Now from a young
age, society broadly teaches us that we should be consumers.  And we
should be thinking about what to buy, you know?  Our parents are like,
"Johnny, what do you want for your birthday?"  "What are you gonna buy
when you get that-" Or you know, "What would you buy if you had a
million dollars, if you won the lottery?"  It's all very much based on
being a consumer.  But, as MJ tells us in the book, this consumer
mindset is never gonna help us to actually build wealth.  Instead, we
need to think to a producer mindset.  And this genuinely changes the
way that you approach the world.  Like if you think in the eyes of a
consumer and you see some cool- I was in the Samsung store earlier
today.  It's fairly close to where I live. It's really cool.  I'm
thinking as a consumer like, "Bloody hell, there's all these phones
and watches and gadgets and fridges and microwaves and all this cool
stuff.  And the store is really nice.  And I want a fancy new sofa
because that's a fancy new sofa.  But if you have more of a producer
mindset, then you start thinking you could- you kind of ignore the
fact that there's all this stuff out there you can buy.  Instead, you
start thinking, "Oh, this is an interesting marketing play that
they're doing."  "I wonder how much it costs to put the store
together?"  "Oh, I wonder if I could make a video where I switched
from iPhone to Samsung because there's so many Samsung phones here?
So I can make a video where I talk about it and switch.  And then
teach people what it's like to switch from an iPhone to an Android",
and all that kind of jazz.  And so the way I'm thinking there is,
hopefully, as a producer, rather than a consumer.  And if you want a
practical tip for how this works, I think, really, the key is to just
think about what's going on on the business side of stuff when you are
out and about.  For example, next time you're in McDonald's, instead
of thinking how tasty your Filet-O-Fish burger is, think, "Huh, I
wonder how it is that McDonald's created a system whereby every single
fish burger in every single McDonald's basically tastes the same?"
"How do they do that?"  That's pretty incredible.  And then you can
read a book like "The E-Myth Revisited", which is, again, one of my
favourite business books of all time that talks about exactly how
McDonald's built this sort of franchise system.

*  Show commitment, don't just show interest

And lesson number five, show commitment, don't just show interest.
And this is a message that MJ talks about throughout the book.
Basically, there's a difference between interest and commitment.  And
if you want to get rich quick, but not easy.  If you wanna get rich
quick, you have to do things that other people are not willing to do
or not able to do.  And usually, that shows commitment rather than
just interest.  And there's a nice quote from the book where he says
that, "Interest works in your business one hour a day, Monday through
Friday.  Commitment works in your business seven days a week, whenever
time permits."  Now, when I was first growing this YouTube channel and
the personal brand and the business and everything, I would spend
basically every waking moment where I wasn't at work or at university
or in lectures and stuff, thinking and planning videos.  And planning
content and figuring out the business strategy and doing a lot of
stuff.  And yes, someone might look at that and think, "Oh my god,
toxic productivity, hustle culture," and all that jazz.  But you don't
get to a point where you build a successful business or a successful
YouTube channel, all this kind of stuff, you don't get to that point
without putting in the hard, hard work.  And my point is that the hard
work does not have to be suffering.  It's hard, but it doesn't have to
be painful.  It can be fun.  And I find ways to make it fun.  And
that's the subject of the book that I'm writing, how to make things
fun.  But it does take work and it is hard.  It's not an easy process.
And I think a lot of the kind of anti-productivity, toxic
hustle-culture kind of zealots, are sort of campaigning for an easy,
chilled-out life.  And that's totally fine.  If you want easy,
chilled-out life, 100%, I'm not gonna argue with you, you do what you
want.  But, what MJ says and what these sorts of people were like, you
know, if you care about building wealth in a short amount of time, you
can't take the easy route and have a chilled-out life.  You do have to
start being committed to the stuff that you're doing, rather than just
interested in it.  And there's so many people I know who've started
YouTube channels or businesses that are like, "Oh, you know, I just
want to do it for half an hour a day."  Okay, that's fine. You can do
it for half an hour a day as a hobby.  But if you just do it for half
an hour a day, you are very unlikely to be successful.  Which, I mean,
in fairness, it kind of depends on what your goals are.  If you don't
wanna become a millionaire through this business, whatever.  That's
totally fine, be chilled out about it.  But if you do, if you want to
follow The Millionaire Fastlane approach, you have to be committed,
rather than just interested.  Okay. So we've talked about five of the
different lessons.  And in fact, like there's tonnes of-- this is a
very, very dense book.  It looks- I actually read this on- listened to
this on Audible, so I didn't know how dense it was.  But actually, it
reads more like a sort of textbook, rather than a storybook, which is
kind of nice.  Like it's really, really good, would recommend.  Amazon
link in the video description.  But so, we talked about five of the
key lessons that I learned from this.  There's so many more, but I
want to talk about his five commandments for building a business now.
And his overall point on the book is that if you want to be on the
Millionaire Fastlane, you have to follow all five of these
commandments.  You don't have to follow all five, like dropping one or
two could still make you rich, but it's just so much more likely for
you to become a millionaire quickly i.e. in under 10 years, which is
isn't that quick.  But quickly, if you follow all five of these
commandments.

*  1.The commandment of need

The first one is the Commandment of Need.  And he says that 90% of
businesses fail within the first five years because they don't satisfy
the Commandment of Need.  And the Commandment of Need is that people
actually need the thing that you are offering.  We have to create a
business that provides value or solves people's needs or wants in some
way.  And if we're not, it's really, really hard to build a business
based on something that tries to solve a problem that people don't
actually have.

*  2.The commandment of entry

Secondly, we have the Commandment of Entry.  And the idea here is that
you ideally want to build a business in a zone where the barrier for
entry is high rather than low.  And the reason you want this is
because a high barrier to entry means that it's very difficult for
someone else to copy your business.  For example, if you or me decided
we wanted to start the next Amazon, that's really fricking hard.
There is a very high barrier to entry to starting the next Amazon.
But if there's a business that looks easy to other people to start,
and there is a low barrier to entry, for example, starting a YouTube
channel where the barrier to entry is low.  Or starting a podcast
where it's even lower.  Or starting a blog where it's even lower than
that.  Or starting a TikTok with even lower than that.  The lower the
barriers to entry, the more competitive the landscape becomes.  And
actually, one of the nice things I like about YouTube is that in this
creative sphere, YouTube is still the thing that has the highest
barrier to entry.  There is now, like every year, the bar for
production value and quality and all this stuff rises.  And so, for a
newcomer to get into the YouTube sphere, they kind of need to have
decent gear and decent equipment.  It's like, "oh, and this takes us
into a whole lot controversial territory", which I talk a lot about in
my course, the Part-Time YouTuber Academy.  So I'm not gonna go into
it here, but basically, I like YouTube because it has a higher barrier
to entry than starting a TikTok or starting an Instagram page, for
example.

*  3.The commandment of control

The third one is the Commandment of Control.  And that's the
idea that at every step of the process, we want to be in control of
the thing that we're trying to sell.  And if we don't control things,
like the price or the way it's managed or the way that it's being
sold, then it's hard to build a business on that.  This is partly why
building a business of just a YouTube channel is very scary because it
does not fulfil the Commandment of Control because ultimately, my
business lives and dies by this YouTube channel.  That's really
scary. That's really bad.  I am not fulfilling the Commandment of
Control in this business that I've got around the YouTube channel.
And that's why when I make courses like my Part-Time YouTuber Academy,
I try and fulfil the Commandment of Control by being in control of as
much of that process as possible.  This is also why MLM multi-level
marketing schemes don't work because if you're selling someone else's
product, who's also trying to get you to sell someone else's product,
you ultimately don't really have the control over that process.  And
therefore, if stuff goes wrong or stuff is bad, you personally can't
really influence it.  And that's a very scary way to build a business.

*  4.The commandment of scale

Commandment number four is the Commandment of Scale.  And that's the
idea that ideally, if you want to grow rich quick, the idea is you
want to build a business that has the potential to scale up.  For
example, starting a barber shop and cutting people's hair for £10 a
pop is not a business that has very much potential to scale, unless
you try and build up more and more and more barbershops and a chain of
barbershops.  But then, that costs loads of money.  Whereas a software
business or a content business really does have the potential to
scale.  So ideally, you to build a business that satisfies the
commandment scale.  And there's another thing that he talks about in
the book that we haven't talked about in this video, which is the Law
of Effection.  Basically, the law is that to make millions, you have
to impact millions.  (chuckles) And it's pretty simple.  Like if you
want to make millions off a YouTube channel, you have to be impacting
millions of people.  If you want to make millions off a business, you
have to be impacting millions of people or impacting fewer people, but
with a very large amount of impact.  And so the Commandment of Scale
kind of relates to that.  You can't get rich quick off of selling
lemonade in your local neighbourhood.  You have to build a business
that has the potential, at least, for scale.

*  5.The commandment of time

And finally, we have the Commandment of Time, that the idea here, as
we talked about before, is that you want to build a business where the
value of the business is disconnected from your personal time input.
If you have to show up every single day, nine to five or whatever many
hours to make your money, then that's not really true wealth.  And
that is actually one of the problems with this YouTube business.  As
great as the content business in, I have to keep showing up time and
time again, to record videos like this one.  It's kind of fun. I'm
having a great time.  And I would like to build a sort of business in
the future.  One where I really don't have to show up at all to
continue to do the work.  This is why writing a book is great because
once you've written the book, people just buy it, assuming it's
marketed well.  And assuming it's a good book, of course, all that fun
stuff.  So that was a very, very long summary of some of the lessons
in this enormous really, really good book, The Millionaire Fastlane,
would recommend.  If you're interested in more ideas on how to be able
to make money, how to build passive income, check out this video over
here, which is nine passive income ideas.  And it talks about how at
the time, I was making $27,000 a week from these passive income
sources.  Thank you so much for watching.  Do hit the subscribe
button, if you aren't already.  And I'll see you in the next video.


Bye-bye.


* Notes                                                      :noexport:notes:
